every year bestfriends looks for new and
innovative ways to reduce the killing of
pets in our nation shelters one program
we recently created in both Los Angeles
and Salt Lake City is designed to save
some of the most vulnerable the
thousands of kittens under 8 weeks old
who died in shelters every year kittens
who are too young to find homes and need
24-hour care best friends kitten nursery
program is already making a huge impact
in our community and we're always
looking for dedicated volunteers to help
save them all when I volunteer for best
friends and work in the neonatal program
with them you know watching those
kittens come in from the most dire
situation it's covered with grease and
cold and wet and starving and motherless
to moving into a warm comfortable
well-fed loving community it's just so
rewarding together staff volunteers and
shelter partners work around the clock
to save the lives of thousands of
kittens who land in busy Salt Lake City
shelters most shelter kittens die
because there simply aren't the
necessary staff and resources but with
the help of dedicated volunteers this
life-saving program is allowing kittens
to grow up and find loving homes it's
very relaxing you just get to sit with a
kitten and feed them until they're it's
nice our new Salt Lake facility takes
orphaned kittens as well as nursing
adult cats with litters and cares for
them until the kittens reach an
adoptable age and wait the operation of
our kitten nursery is similar to a
neonatal unit in a hospital excellent
medical and nutritional care is
essential
along with strict protocols for
cleanliness the kittens lives depend on
the quality of care we provide to staff
members oversee the operation with
assistance from a team of trained
volunteers shifts range from 4 a.m. to 2
a.m. and we ask that volunteers commit
to at least one two-hour period because
the kittens very survival depends on
regular feeding intervals it is critical
that volunteers be reliable when they
to a shift its fast-paced rewarding work
that includes bottle-feeding cage
cleaning food preparation and kitten
socialization volunteers meet other
like-minded people have fun and often
become good friends each volunteer will
attend an orientation as well as two
on-site training sessions volunteers
must be at least 18 years old or between
13 and 17 years old when volunteering
alongside a parent at times working the
nursery can be an emotional experience
because not every orphan kitten can
survive despite anyone's best efforts
it's a sad reality and volunteering in
the kitten nursery is not for everyone
however it's extremely rewarding to know
that the work we do saves countless
lives and most of these kittens would
have had little chance of survival
without our help in addition to nursery
volunteers we always need help fostering
and socializing kittens to become a
kitten nursery volunteer sign up for an
orientation or go to bestfriends org
slash Utah to explore more exciting
volunteer opportunities remember that
together we can save them all